# Authentication and Production Server
## JSON Web Tokens
Self contained way for securely transmitting (digitally signed) information between parties as a JSON object. Can be signed using a secret or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA. 

Signed tokens can verify the integrity of the claims contained within it, while encypted tokens hide the claims from other parties. Tokens signed using public/private key pairs certify that only the party holding the private key is the signer. 

Uses:
- Authorization: after logging in, each request will include the JWT (JSON Web Token), which allows the user to access routes, services, and resources permitted with that token. 
- Information Exchange: ensure the senders are who they say they are through the use of key pairs. Can also verify that data hasn't been tampered with through the calculated signature. 

Benefits of Use:
- Less verbose than XML, more compact than SAML
- Easier to sign
- JSON parsers map directly to objects
- internet scaled - ease of client-side processing on multiple platforms  

### JWT structure
3 parts separated by dots:
Example: `xxxxx.yyyyy.zzzzz`
- Header: type of token (HWT) and the signing algorithm being used (ex. HMAC SHA256)
  ```
  {
    "alg": "HS256",
    "typ": "JWT"
  }
  ```
- Payload: contains the claims, which are statements about the entity (typically, the user) and additional data. The 3 types are registered, public, and private claims. 
  - registered: set of predefined recommended claims (not mandatory), to provide a set of useful claims. Examples: iss(issuer), exp(expiration time), sub(subject), aud(audience), and others. 
  - public: defined at will by users of JWTs. Avoid collision by defining claims in the IANA JSON Web Token Registry or as a URI that contains a collision resistant namespace. 
  - private: custom claims created to share info between parties that agree on using them and are neither registered or public claims. 
  ```
  {
    "sub": "1234567890",
    "name": "John Doe",
    "admin": true
  }
  ```
- Signature: create signature by taking the encoded header, encoded payload, a secret, the algorithm specified in the header, and sign that. Signature is used to verify the message wasn't changed along the way and verify the sender of the JWT (if tokens were signed with a private key). Example using the HMAC SHA256 algorithm:
  ```
  HMACSHA256(
    base64UrlEncode(header) + "." +
    base64UrlEncode(payload),
    secret)
  ```

Putting all 3 parts of the structure together is 3 Base64-URL strings seaparated by dots that can easily be passed in HTML/HTTP environments. 

Play with JWT: https://jwt.io/#debugger-io

### JWT - How does it work?
JSON Web Token is returns when a user successfully logs in using their credentials.  
Token => Credentials

If the user wants to access a protected route or resource, the user agent should send the JWT (typically in the Authorization header using the Bearer schema):    
`Authorization: Bearer <token>`

The server's protected routes will check for a valid JWT in the `Authorization` header. If present, user will be given access. If JWT contains the necessary data, the necessity to query database is reduced (but not always the case).   

If token is sent in `Authorization` header, CORS won't be an issue since it doesn't use cookies. 

JWT flow:
Application (Client) -> AuthO (Authorization Server) -> Applicaiton (Client) -> API (Resource Server)  
1. App or client requests authorization by going through authorization endpoint using the authorization code flow
2. When authorization is granted, the authorization server returns an acess token to the app
3. App uses the access token to access a protected resource (ex. API)
_____

## Using JWT Authentication with Django REST Framework
Example of authorization token:   
`curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/hello/ -H 'Authorization: Bearer eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoiYWNjZXNzIiwiZXhwIjoxNTQzODI4NDMxLCJqdGkiOiI3ZjU5OTdiNzE1MGQ0NjU3OWRjMmI0OTE2NzA5N2U3YiIsInVzZXJfaWQiOjF9.Ju70kdcaHKn1Qaz8H42zrOYk0Jx9kIckTn9Xx7vhikY'`

JWT is acquired by exchanging a username and password for an access token and a refresh token.  

Access token is usually short lived (usually expired in 5 minutes) and a refresh token lives a bit longer (expires in 24 hours) but both time limits can be customized. Once expired, user needs to log in again using their credentials.  

JWT:  
`xxxxx.yyyyy.zzzzz` -> `header.payload.signature`  

```
header = eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9
payload = eyJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoiYWNjZXNzIiwiZXhwIjoxNTQzODI4NDMxLCJqdGkiOiI3ZjU5OTdiNzE1MGQ0NjU3OWRjMmI0OTE2NzA5N2U3YiIsInVzZXJfaWQiOjF9
signature = Ju70kdcaHKn1Qaz8H42zrOYk0Jx9kIckTn9Xx7vhikY
```

Decoded header:
```
{
  "typ": "JWT",
  "alg": "HS256"
}

```

Decoded payload:
```
{
  "token_type": "access",
  "exp": 1543828431,
  "jti": "7f5997b7150d46579dc2b49167097e7b",
  "user_id": 1
}
```

Decoded signature:
Issued by JWT backend using header base64 + payload base64 + `secret_key`. Check and validate by using the application's `secret_key`.

### Tutorial
**Install REST**  
`$ pip install djangorestframework_simplejwt`

**settings.py**  
```
REST_FRAMEWORK = {
    'DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES': [
        'rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication',
    ],
}
```

**urls.py** (project)  
```
from django.urls import path
from rest_framework_simplejwt import views as jwt_views

urlpatterns = [
    # Your URLs...
    path('api/token/', jwt_views.TokenObtainPairView.as_view(), name='token_obtain_pair'),
    path('api/token/refresh/', jwt_views.TokenRefreshView.as_view(), name='token_refresh'),
]
```

**views.py**  
```
from rest_framework.views import APIView
from rest_framework.response import Response
from rest_framework.permissions import IsAuthenticated


class HelloView(APIView):
    permission_classes = (IsAuthenticated,)

    def get(self, request):
        content = {'message': 'Hello, World!'}
        return Response(content)
```

**urls.py** (app)  
```
from django.urls import path
from myapi.core import views

urlpatterns = [
    path('hello/', views.HelloView.as_view(), name='hello'),
]
```

**Obtain token**  
Authenticate and obtain the token. Endpont is `/api/token` and it only accepts POST requests:
`$ http post http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/token/ username=vitor password=123`

Response body of two tokens:  
```
{
    "access": "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoiYWNjZXNzIiwiZXhwIjoxNTQ1MjI0MjU5LCJqdGkiOiIyYmQ1NjI3MmIzYjI0YjNmOGI1MjJlNThjMzdjMTdlMSIsInVzZXJfaWQiOjF9.D92tTuVi_YcNkJtiLGHtcn6tBcxLCBxz9FKD3qzhUg8",
    "refresh": "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoicmVmcmVzaCIsImV4cCI6MTU0NTMxMDM1OSwianRpIjoiMjk2ZDc1ZDA3Nzc2NDE0ZjkxYjhiOTY4MzI4NGRmOTUiLCJ1c2VyX2lkIjoxfQ.rA-mnGRg71NEW_ga0sJoaMODS5ABjE5HnxJDb0F8xAo"
}
```

**Store both the access token and refresh token on the client side (usually in local storage)**  
Include the access token in the header of all requests:  
`$ http http://127.0.0.1:8000/hello/ "Authorization: Bearer eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoiYWNjZXNzIiwiZXhwIjoxNTQ1MjI0MjAwLCJqdGkiOiJlMGQxZDY2MjE5ODc0ZTY3OWY0NjM0ZWU2NTQ2YTIwMCIsInVzZXJfaWQiOjF9.9eHat3CvRQYnb5EdcgYFzUyMobXzxlAVh_IAgqyvzCE"`  

Once token expires (5 minutes), view errors out (`token_not_valid`).  

**Refresh token**  
User the refresh token endpoint `/api/token/refresh/`:  
`$ http post http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/token/refresh/ refresh=eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoicmVmcmVzaCIsImV4cCI6MTU0NTMwODIyMiwianRpIjoiNzAyOGFlNjc0ZTdjNDZlMDlmMzUwYjg3MjU1NGUxODQiLCJ1c2VyX2lkIjoxfQ.Md8AO3dDrQBvWYWeZsd_A1J39z6b6HEwWIUZ7ilOiPE`  

Refresh token is valid for 24 hours. Once expired, user needs to perform full authentication again to get a new set of access tokens + refresh token. 



