# How to use the Random Module in Python
Allows you to generate random numbers, but also supports many other operations.
To use, import random.

## Useful functions
- Randint: random integer. Accepts 2 parameters: lowest and highest number 
  example -> random.randint(0,5)
  output: random number betweeh 1-5
- Random: multiply for a larger number 
  example -> random.random() * 100
  output: random number between 0 and 100
- Choice: random value from the sequence 
  example -> random.choice( ['red', 'black', 'green'] )
  output: random element form list
- Shuffle: shuffles elements in list in place, so they are in a random order 
  example -> x = [[i] for i in range(10)]
             shuffle(x)
- Randrange: randomly selected element from range (start, stop, step)
  example -> for i in range(3):
             print random.randrange(0, 101, 5)
-----
# What is Risk Analysis in Software Testing and how to perform it?
The process of identifying the risks in applications or software and prioritizing testing. 

Assign risk level > categorization of the risks > risk impact calculation

## Why use it?
- highlights potential problem areas
- helps mitigate risk
- test plans take risks into consideration & possibility of damages

## Potential risks?
1. new hardware
2. new tech
3. new automation
4. sequence of code
5. availability of test resources for the app

## Unavoidable risks
1. testing time
2. defect leakage due to complexity/size
3. client urgency
4. incomplete requirements

## Ways to tackle risks:
- conduct risk assessment review meeting 
- use max resources for high-risk areas
- create risk assessment db for future use
- identify risk magnitude indicators: high, medium, low
  > High: means the effect of the risk would be very high and non-tolerable. The company might face loss.
  > Medium: it is tolerable but not desirable. The company may suffer financially but there is a limited risk.
  > Low: it is tolerable. There lies little or no external exposure or no financial loss.

## Risk Identification
- Business Risks: comes from biz or customers, not from project
- Testing Risks: dev needs to be fluent in testing and tools
- Premature Release Risk: releasing unsatisfactory or untested software
- Software Risks: dev should be well versed with risks with software development process

## Risk Assessment
1. Early Forecase of unwanted situation in the project
2. Estimating potential loss of such situation
3. Making decision to deal with such situation
4. Avoid the future consequences

### Perspective
- Effect: identify a condition, event or action and determine its impact.
- Cause: opposite of Effect. Scan the problem and reach the point that could be the most probable reason behind it. 
- Likelihood: probability that the requirement won't be satisfied.

## How to perform Risk Analysis?
1. Search the risk
2. Analyze impact of each individual risk
3. Measures for the identified risks

-----
# Big O 
Big O: how time scales with respect to some input variables

O(1) - constant time: it doesn't take longer with more input (ex. it doesn't take the pigeon longer to deliver code, regardless of data size)

O(n) - linear time: it takes longer, in respect to the input size (ex. it takes internet longer to transfer bigger files, so twice the amount of data will roughly take about twice the amount of time)

## Important Rules
1. Different steps get added. 
    - ex. O(a) + O(b) = O(a+b)
2. Drop constants (O(n)
    - ex. O(n) + O(n) = O(n) // not O(2n)
3. Different inputs => different variables
    - ex. length of two different arrays would be O(a * b) and not O(n^2)
4. Drop non-dominate terms
    - ex. if left and right are equivalent, then center is too
    - O(n^2) <= O(n + n^2) <= O(n^2 + n^2)
    - O(n + n^2) ---> O(n^2)