# Ethics

## Amazon & Recognition Contracts with Law Enforcement
> “Our company should not be in the surveillance business; we should not be in the policing business; we should not be in the business of supporting those who monitor and oppress marginalized populations,” the employee letter states.

I am always in awe when people take a strong stance and call their company into action, possibly putting their own livelihood at risk or their careers in jeopardy. These potential career martyrs are the true heroes of the tech industry, as they hold their companies accountable and truly try to revisit the impacts their company has on greater society. I am proud of these people for standing up for what they believe in and for fighting for the greater good. I agree with the Amazon employee sentiments, that a tech company should not strive to build tools heavily targeted towards a policing or political agency. Targeted surveillance completely restricts an individual's automony and rarely acts as a safety measure. Creating a product or service for a company or agency that promotes the spread of fear in return for profits is something that I will never support, especially when the primary use affects marginalized communities the most.

## Microsoft & ICE
> "We are part of a growing movement, comprised of many across the industry who recognize the grave responsibility that those creating powerful technology have to ensure what they build is used for good, and not for harm.”

Just because the government and President approve of something, doesn't mean it's right. Separating families is never right. Families in Korea are still mourning after the 38th parallel separation, due to superpowers fighting and claiming their side of the "correct" democracy. Use of tech power is leveraged for political wars that become normalized in the eyes of our society. When that power is given to political powers by a tech company, that company becomes 100% complicit in what comes after. We don't always see what goes on in the background and if companies support inhumane policies to influence other types of legislation, but these are all things that need more transparency. We need to always remember that we're all humans, first. 