# Graphs
Non-linear data structure that can be looked at as a collection of `vertices` (or `nodes`), potentially connected by line segments named `edges`. 

## Common Terminology
vertex: `node` - data object that can have zero or more adjacent vertices  
edge: conncetion between two nodes  
neighbor: adjacent nodes (connected via an edge)  
degree: number of edges connected to that vertex  

## Directed vs Undirected
Undirected graph: each edge is undirected or bi-directional (the undirected graph does not move in any direction)  
```
A-----C-----B  
|     |     |  
D-----E-----F  
```
- Node C is connected to Node A.  
- There are no "directions" given to point to specific vertices, which makes it bi-directional. 
- 6 vertices and 7 undirected edges
- vertices/nodes: {a, b, c, d, e, f}
- edges: {(a,c),(a,d),(b,c),(b,f),(c,e),(d,e),(e,f)}

Directed graph (Digraph): every edge is directed  
Each node is directed at another node with a specific requirement of what node should be referenced next. Has arrows pointing to specific nodes.   
```
A---->C<----B
^    |  ^   |
|    v  |   v
D---->E---->F
```
- 6 vertices and 8 directed edges
- vertices/nodes: {a,b,c,d,e,f}
- edges: {(a,c),(b,c),(b,f),(c,e),(d,a),(d,e)(e,c)(e,f)}

## Complete vs Connected vs Disconnected
Complete: all nodes are connected to all other nodes  
Connected: all vertices/nodes have at least one edge (ex. Tree)  
Disconnected: some vertices may not have edges (completely possible to have standalone/island nodes or edges)  

## Acyclic vs Cyclic
Acyclic: directed graph without cycles  
Cycle: when a node can be traversed through and potentially end up back at itself  
DAG: directed acyclic graph (ex. tree)  

Cyclic: graph that has cycles  
Cycle: path of a positive length that starts and ends at the same vertex  

## Graph Representation
1. Adjacency Matrix: represented through a 2-dimensional array. If there are n vertices, then we are looking at an `n x n` Boolean matrix, where each row/column represents each vertex of the data structure. Elements of both column and the row must add up to 1 if there is an edge that connects the two, or zero if there isn't a connection. 
  - sparse graph: there are very few connections
  - dense graph: many connections
  - within adjacency matrix, an undirected graph will always be symmetric (not the case for directed graph)
2. Adjacency List: collection of linked lists or array that lists all of the other vertices that are connected. Makes it easy to view if one vertices connects to another. 
  - collection of some sort (ex. linked list / array of arrays)
  - each index/node will be a vertex within the graph
  - every time an edge is added, you will find the appropriate vertices in the data structure and add it to the appropriate location

## Weighted Graphs
A graph with numbers assigned to its edges. Numbers are called weights. Set the element in the 2D array to represent the actual weight between the two paths. If there is not a connection between the two certices, you can out a `0` or the infinity sign. 

For weight matrices, add the weight number instead of `0` and `1`. Within adjacency lists, include both the weight and the name of the adjacent vertex (ex. b,4). 

## Traversals
Breadth First:  
Visit all the nodes that are closest to the root as possible. From there, you traverse outwards, level by level, until all vertices/nodes have been visited.   
- start at a specific vertex/node
- node must be specified when calling the method
- keep track of which node has been visited so that it doesn't infinitely loop
- upon each visit, add the previously unvisited node to a `visited` set so that we don't visit it again while traversing

1. `Enqueue` the declared start node into the Queue
2. Create a loop that will run while the node still has nodes present
3. `Dequeue` the first node from the queue
4. If the `Dequeue`'d node has unvisited child nodes, add the unvisited children to `visited` set and insert them into the queue.   
Note: If there are islands, they will not be traversed. Breadth-first only outputs the nodes that are connected in some relation to the root that you pass in. 

```
ALGORITHM BreadthFirst(vertex)
    # declare the starting node (or root)
    DECLARE nodes <-- new List()
    DECLARE breadth <-- new Queue()
    DECLARE visited <-- new Set()
    
    # enqueue the root
    breadth.Enqueue(vertex)
    # add the root to the visited set
    visited.Add(vertex)
    
    # enter while loop until there are no more nodes in the queue
    while (breadth is not empty)
        # dequeue the front node and check to see if it has children
        DECLARE front <-- breadth.Dequeue()
        nodes.Add(front)
        
        # if there are children, add them to visited
        for each child in front.Children
            if(child is not visited)
                visited.Add(child)
                # enqueue any children that have not yet been visited
                breadth.Enqueue(child)   

    return nodes;
```

Depth First:
1. `Push` the root node into the stack
2. Start a while loop while the stack is not empty
3. `Peek` at the top node in the stack
4. If the top node has unvisited children, mark the top node as visited and then `Push` any unvisited children back into the stack
5. If the top node does not have any unvisited children, `Pop` that node off the stack
6. Repeat until stack is empty