## Pain and Suffering
Grow despite the pain, in the next 10 weeks of this course. The pain is temporary and will catapult you into the next journey!

Do NOT suffer. You need a purpose to overcome the pain. Having no purpose casues suffering.

Things to consider:
What’s your perspective?
Why are you doing this?
Do you want what comes at the end of this journey?
Are you doing this for you?

If you are in pain, find the cure! Seek help through research, your peers, and your community. Everyone is going through the same pain, but the gaps are different. Your community might be struggling with something you excel in, and vice versa. Use each other as valuable resources.

>The pain that you feel? Those are the callouses that you build while learning to use that tool.

>Welcome to 401.

## Beginners Guide to Big O
Big O notation describes the performance or complexity of an algorithm. It specifically describes the worse-case scenario. It can be used to describe execution time or the space used by an algorithm.

### O(1)
An algorithm that executes in the same time or space, regardless of the size of the input data set.

### O(2)
An algorithm with performance that grows linearly and in direct proportion to the size of the input data set.

### O(N^2)
An algorithm whose performance is directly proportional to the square of the size of the input data set. Common with algorithms that involve nested interations over the data set. An increment of the power value occurs for deeper nested iterations (ex. O(N^3), O(N^4), etc.). 

### O(2^N)
Denotes an algorithm that doubles in growth with each addition to the input data set. The growth curve is exponential - starting off shallow and then rising drastically. 

### Logarithms
The logarithm of a number is the exponent to which another fixed number must be raised.

Example from wiki:
1000 = 10×10×10 = 10^3,
the "logarithm base 10" of 1000 is 3, 
or log&or;10(1000) = 3

Binary search is used to search sorted data sets with halving methods. It continues to halve the data set with each iteration until the specified value is found or until the data can no longer be split.

This algorithm is described as O(log N). The growth curve peaks at the beginning and slowly flattens out as the size of the data sets increase.

>an input data set containing 10 items takes one second to complete, a data set containing 100 items takes two seconds, and a data set containing 1000 items will take three seconds

## Additional Resources
[Season 1, Episode 6, A friendly intro to Big O Notation](https://www.codenewbie.org/basecs/8)  

Videos
[Names and Values in Python](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_AEJHKGk9ns)  

Bookmark/Skim
[Awesome Python Environment](https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-setup-an-awesome-python-environment-for-data-science-or-anything-else-35d358cc95d5)  
[Python Module of the Week](https://pymotw.com/3/index.html)  