## Hash Tables
Used to hold unique values, dictionary, library. 
> A hash table uses a hash function to compute an index (hash code), into buckets (index), from which desired value can be found. Key is hashed and the resulting has indicates where the corresponding value is stored. 

### Terminology
Hash: result of some algo taking an incoming string and converting it into a value that could be used for security or other purposes. For hashtables, it's used to determine the index of the array.   
Buckets: contained in each index of the array of the hashtable. Each index is a bucket and could potentially contain multiple key/value pairs if a collision occurs.   
Collisions: occurs when more than one key gets hashed to the same location of the hashtable.   

### What are they
Data structure that utilize key value pairs. Every node or bucket has both a key and value. Has the ability to store the key into this data structure and quickly retrieve the value. 

Hash is the ability to encode the key that will eventually map to a specific location in the data structure that we can look at directly to retrieve the value. 

Big O for time would be O(1) since we are able to hash our key and determine the exact location of the value stored. A hash map uses a "hash function" to place each item at a precise index location, based off it's key. 

Hash function:
input -> array
output -> int (used to determine where the key/value pair should be placed in the array)
- calcuated in constant time -> O(1) access
- output only determined by input (deterministic)
- same key always produces the same hash code
- should be easy to compute and must not become an algo in itself
- should have uniform distribution across the hash table and should not result in clustering

### Applications for hash tables
- Associative arrays: implements in-memory tables for arrays whose indices are arbitrary strings or other complicated objects
- Database indexing: used as disk-based data structures and database indices (such as dbm)
- Caches: used to implement caches (i.e. auxiliary data tables) that speed up access to data
- Object representation: implement objects
- overall used in various algorithms to make computing faster

### Structure
#### Creating a hash
Created from an array, traditionally. Create an array of appropriate size and have some sort of logic that turns the key into a numeric number value. 

How are the key/values stored in the array?
Each index contain buckets and each bucket holds one key/value pair combo. If there is no entry in a specific bucket, the buckets (each index of the array) all start "null". The hash table starts each bucket empty and overwrites their value once a key generates a hashcode that corresponds with an index.

#### Collisions
Occurs when more than one key hashes to the same index in an array. The hash map needs to be able to handle two keys resolving to the same index, so two calls to `.Add(key, val)` with different keys would *overwrite* each other. 

Collisions are solved by changing the initial state of the buckets from "null". Initializing a linked list in each bucket would store the key/value pairs as a node in a linked list. 

Buckets can store multiple key/value pairs (hence the name). Each key/value pair needs to be stored (not just the key), since a bucket can hold more than one pair. 

#### Storing values
- accept a key
- calculate hash of the key
- use modulus to convert the hash into an array index
- store the key with the value by appending both to the end of a linked list

#### Reading values
- accept a key
- calculate the hash of the key
- use modulus to convert the has into an array index
- use the array index to access the short LinkedLIst representing a bucket
- search through the bucket looking for a node with a key/val pair that matches the key you were given

#### Bucket Sizes
Hash maps can have any number of buckets but the fewer there are, the more collisions occur due to the density. If there are more buckets, it will be more sparse but there can also be extra empty space. By computing the "load factor", we can find out how full the hash table is and it can automatically grow and add more buckets to accomodate more data. 

### Internal Methods
`Add()` - when adding a new key/val pair to a hashtable:
- send the key to the `GetHash` method
- once you determine the index of where it should be placed, go to that index
- check if something exists at that index already, and if it doesn't, add it with the key/val pair
- if something does already exist, add the new key/val pair to the data structure within that bucket

`Find()` - takes in a key, gets the Hash, and goes to the index location specified. Once at the index location, algo needs to iterate through the bucket to see if the key exists. If key exists, return the value. 

`Contains()` - accepts a key and returns a bool for whether the key exists in the hashtable. Best method is to have the contins call the `GetHash` and check the hashtable if the key exists in the table given the index returned. 

`GetHash()` - accepts a key as a string, conducts the hash, and then returns the index of the array where the key/val should be placed. 





